>> Brian Holt: So the next section we're
going to do is server side rendering,
which is going to get us into Node.js,
which I love Node.js.
That's literally my job is
to work on Node.js at Azure.
So I'm going to try and not cover a ton
of Node.js, because this is not a Node.js
workshop and there's plenty of good
Node.js content on Frontend Masters.
So we're gonna keep this as
bare minimum as possible.
>> Brian Holt: So there's a couple
things that we have to do to prepare for
server side rendering.
And, I guess, let's talk first about
why you want to server side render.
If you go to our app right now and
you hit View Source,
you can see here there's nothing here,
right?
There's absolutely nothing here.
So that means we have to download all the
JavaScript, and then have it render, and
then it'll load, right?
Wouldn't it be better if it could just
download, and show the user something, and
then in the background load JavaScript,
right?
So that's what server side
render is going to do.
It allows us to write all of
our application in React,
pre-render everything, and
then send the user the complete markup.
And then React will take over
the page once it's finished loading.
So we have to do a couple of
things to prepare for that.
The first thing that we're going to do is,
we're going to make a new file called
ClientApp.js,
>> Brian Holt: And
this is gonna be all the code that
runs only in the browser, right?
So imagine if you're using
things like Google Analytics,
that doesn't work in Node.js, right?
I'm sorry, it doesn't.
But you could do that here.
So here we're gonna say
import React from react,
import render from react-dom.
Import, I'm sorry, not react, render, but
we're actually going to import hydrate.
Import app from ./app.
And then we're going to say hydrate App
at document.getElementById('root'));
>> Brian Holt: And then here you would say
any other browser-only things.
In other words, this part's not
gonna get run in the browser.
So hydrate is a special function.
It's like render, but
what it's saying is I expect there
to be markup already in this place.
Just take over what's there,
don't re render, right?
Whereas, if I said render here
instead of hydrate it would say
blow away whatever is there and
re-render it.
Like I don't care what's in there, right?
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
Then we're gonna go to App.js here.
And I'm going to delete
this part at the end, and
I'm just gonna say export default App.
And then now, I can import this
into Node and then render it there.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, now you have to
go through your entire application,
and make sure on the initial first render
that there's no reference to documents.
In this repo there is one,
and it's in modal.
Notice where it says
document.getElementById?
If you try to do this in node,
it's gonna say no thank you, right?
So what we're gonna do
instead is we're gonna say,
we're just gonna move this
into the effect here.
Okay?
Now this will only happen in the effect,
and that'll be fine.
>> Brian Holt: Next thing I want you to
do, we're going to install two new things.
We're going to say npm install
babel-cli and express.
Babel CLI, cuz we're gonna have to run
our React code through Babel, right,
because Node doesn't speak JSX.
And then Express is just one
of the many Node frameworks.
We're just gonna use that one
cuz it's the most popular one.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
Next thing that we're gonna do.
Is we're gonna go and
make inside of
package.json.
We're gonna make a build.
So here in scripts, we're gonna say build.
And this is how you build your
application for production.
We're gonna say build parcel build
--public-url ./dist src/index.html.
>> Brian Holt: So
this is gonna tell parcels, hey,
build my code for production.
And then this public-url part says that
I'm going to be serving everything from
/dist, so be aware of that.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then down here,
we're also gonna put in a start.
And that's gonna be npm run build
&& babel-node server/index.js.
Now, I'm gonna use babel-node.
This is typically not recommended for
production use.
But it's going to save
us a lot of setting up.
Typically what you would do is you'd pre
compile your React code in such a way that
Node could read it, and then use that code
so that it doesn't have any JSX, right?
But today, that would take a while.
And that's not really that
useful of an exercise.
So just be aware that there's
a better way to do this.
We're just going to kind
of shortcut it here.